so one of the important phases in the
application development lifecycle is the
testing phase now there are several
types of testing the first line of
defense when testing code is called unit
testing which is typically performed by
the developer or development team now
when working with java a unit usually
refers to a method now a developer could
run tests on his or her code manually
for example if we wanted to test the
method that performs the calculation and
displays the result to the user we could
manually run the method with a set of
test values and verify that we get the
expected result back but that's tedious
and what would happen when we made
changes to the method we have to run the
tests all over again and perhaps add
even more test values now instead of
running tests manually developers can
use a unit testing framework to write
tests that will run in an automated
fashion now when working on a team
that's coding a large application
the build process for the application
will typically run a unit test suite
after each successful build and if a
hundred percent of the tests are
successful
that's great but if not then the fail
tests will tell the developers what
recent changes to the code may have
broken a part of the application for
smaller applications with a single
developer the developer can still run
the tests right after changing any code
j unit is a popular testing framework
that we can use to run unit tests and
starting in this video we're going to
learn how to use j unit to run automated
tests on our code what we need to get
started is to create a class that we can
use to write some unit tests for let's
create a new project....
....
...
alright i'm just going to create a class
new class will call this one bank
account
ok so let's add a couple of field....
....
...obviously this isn't a
robust implementation of a bank account
class but the methods that we've
created will do for our purposes here
alright so we want to use j unit which
is the testing framework that is going
to be automating our tests the
first step that we need to do is to add
the j unit library to our project
now intelliJ ships with the j
unit 3 and j unit 4 libraries but it
doesn't actually add them to the
projects by default so we have to add
the version of j unit would like to use
now junit 4 is the latest
version i recommend going for that one
so we're going to use that one in this
section of the course and in fact all
the code of this lecture will be based
on junit four so if you are using an
earlier version of j unit some of the
code won't compile and the tests won't work
because the enhancements that made
to j unit 4 and again intelliJ
includes j unit three so that
projects build in intellij that use
junit three will still work without
having to switch to junit 4 but it
is recommended to use junit 4 for all
new projects right now how do we go
about adding the j unit 4 library to
our project we could add the library to
the project in the normal way that we've
done before file project structure going
into libraries and then adding the
library and actually navigating into
where the IntelliJ installation folder
where you find it in the lib subfolder
of the intellij root directory but
theirs actually a more convenient way
to add it to our project so let's just
cancel out of that now we want to write
unit tests for the bank account class so
what we need to do to get this add it is
put out cursor on the public class bank
account line within the bank account
file and once we've done that we
press alt enter the cursor on that line
we get this option that pops up here
click on create test and this pop up
will pop up the first time you do this
it's actually asking where we're going
to put the test code because what
actually happens is j unit will create
for each class in your
project and equivalent test class so
i'll have the same name as the class but
with the word test in it in this case
we've got a class called bank account
dot java so junit will want to create a
file called bank account test . java
i'm going to click OK to
enable the tests to be added into the
same root in the same source root
so will see that when I open the
project pane shortly so i'm gonna click
OK to that now once I do that will
get this pop up as well but we want to
do here as you can see that it's for me it's
pop and said or was shown test
library previous as the default and may or
may not do that for you but what you
want to do is come down here click on the
drop-down and select j unit 4 and at
the moment it's coming up saying junit 4
library not found in the module we can
click on fix and get this little pop-up
and you can see the options are we can
either copy of the j unit 4 library or
we can use the J unit 4 from the
IntelliJ IDEA distribution so select the
first option because it makes more sense
to use the in built one that comes bundled
with intellij click on OK
we now no longer get that error about the j unit
library at the bottom down here we've
got the options of the methods that are
in this particular class and we can
create an equivalent test for that that
method for each of those methods so
let's click on the checkbox next to each
one click on click ok I'm going to open the
project pane here just to show you what
happened and you can see now that
intellij is actually added this
extra class this bank account test class
and put it in the same source folder as
the regular package so basically you can
differentiate between the two by the
word test on the end their and its
conventional for the unit testing class
to have the same name as the class that it will
test
so the test the suffix make sense here
that tells you where the glance that
these are the tests relating to the bank
account class which is what we want to
do in this particular case and by the
way the new class is created for our
tests
that's because we don't mix any test
code with the application code that's
why they are separate and distinct from
each other so notice here that there's
one test method for each method in the
bank account class now remember that a
unit is typically a method and so a unit
test will typically test one method this
....annotation tells the j
unit framework
that the method is a test method now
right now the j unit references are
unresolved even though we added the
library to our project that's because when
we click the Fix button and IntelliJ
added the library to the class path it set the
usage of the library to testing which
means that the library will only be
included when we run tests but not when
we compile them to fix this we need to
go to the project structured dialogue
up here file project structure we need
to click on it over here two modules
over here to click on junit and want
to come over here to the right where
it's got tests and change that and
select compile once we do that we click
on ok you can see that the intellij
had a brief think about it and now those
annotations are now resolving and
working fine and we no longer got any
errors now if you want to avoid the
extra step of going to the project
structure dialogues i just did you can
do so by not clicking fix when we add
the library so lets actually just go
through that just so for future
reference you can see what to do their so
go back into the project structure again
come here to j unit i'm going to remove
that by clicking on the minues but
bearing in mind that the plus and minus
maybe a different location might be the
top of the screen but in any event
selected click on minus click on ok
and obviously we've not got those errors
again because we have removed the j unit
library from our project so come across
here to one of these and resolved
annotations putting cursor to the right
of the j unit where they were in red and
hold on alt and press Enter or return we
click on this add j unit 4 to classpath the
same deal here we want to click on
or select the use j unit 4 from
IntelliJ IDEA distribution click ok
and also fixes the annotations and
we now no longer get any errors so i
personally prefer this method because we
don't have to go into the project
structured dialogue at all to set the
value to compile just a few just a few
more steps and get you up to speed
quicker
alright so next we're going to create
a separate run configuration for all our
tests because we want to test a class in
our application we don't actually want
to run the application itself we want to
run the unit tests so within these
classes that I've got open on the screen that
bank account tester class adjust to
the fullscreen going to right click
anywhere outside of a method so down
here we can right-click you see this
option here create bank account test
that's going to be the one that wanna
click but if you're in a method and you're
right click that notice that we've only
got one option for create withdraw
that's not what we want so just
basically move outside of a method right
click click on create bank account test
that brings up this create run flash
debug configuration screen all the
options by default are correct click on OK
and you may have notice at the top right hand
corner here this little while dialog box
change we now got an option for main and we also got
an option here for bank account test
which is the one that's currently
selected so basically got this now to
run the tests within this bank account
test java we're still got our regular
main which would run the code that in
the main method which is currently
nothing in their to process
it's an empty method and move this
down to the bottom
let's go back to main and just put a
simple print line there in that they're
so we can see that it's doing something
...click on
run over here again
ok that's working but now the moment of
truth has arrived
lets actually run our tests just to
bring the file back on screen again the
bank account test
come over here select bank account test
click on run
alright so you can see something's
happened on the bottom of the screen the
console panel at the bottom has been
split into two parts on the left you can
see there's a list of all the tests we
ran so you can see that there are three
there corresponds to the method names
that are in our bank account test
class and actually shows you the name
and how long in milliseconds it took to
actually execute
that test on the right is the normal
console that we used to see there's
also a toolbar that only appears when we are
running tests for now though you will notice
that there's a message after the green
bar the reports that all our tests
were successful over here all three
tests passed but this is actually bad
and the reason it's bad as we haven't
actually written any tests all we have
in our bank account to test class are
stubs which is another word
for empty methods but if you want to
look at the test report we could forget
that the tests were only stubs I think
that we tested our application and then
all the tests have pass so make sure we
don't make this mistake before we end the
video we're going to have all our tests
call junit fail method and that
method does what it says it says it
reports that a test has failed so accepts
a string parameter that it will report
when the test fails so lets actually add
that to each one of these methods so
it's going to be...
...
....
now that i've done that if i run our
test again we get three errors
so we can see that is now completed in
the amount of time that's taken but
we're getting these assertions now j
unit framework assertion failed error
with messages this test is yet to be
completed we can see looking down there
we've got 1 for each of our methods so basically
all three methods are now failing so
hopefully now you can see that how
getting into the habit of adding a
call to fail to any new test method will
ensure that we aren't running tests stubs
and that we know that these can
ultimately be replaced with our tests
when we get to writing that bit of code
so when the tests failed through
these java . lang assertion error
exceptions and the message reported for
each exception again you see on the
screen there
is a message we pass to the fail
method now when we use j unit what we
essentially do is test the output of a
method against an assertion that we've
made about the expected output so test
fails if the assertion isn't met that's
why j unit Reports tests stubs passes
they don't assert anything and so no
assertions fail this will become clearer
when we continue in the next video